


 

Subject:     MODELS2025 – CFP for Accepted Workshops
From:        SEWORLD Moderator <[log in to unmask]>
Reply-To:SEWORLD Moderator <[log in to unmask]>
Date:Mon, 16 Jun 2025 05:34:19 -0000
Content-Type:text/plain





ACM / IEEE 28th International Conference on Model Driven Engineering
Languages and Systems (MODELS)
Oct 5-10, 2025
Grand Rapids, Michigan, United States
https://2025.models-conf.com/

*Important note: *MODELS 2025, including the workshops, will be organized
as a hybrid event with in-person and virtual participation. Presenters of
accepted papers may present their work virtually.

========================================

MODELS, the ACM/IEEE International Conference on Model-Driven Engineering
Languages and Systems, is the premier conference series for model-driven
software and systems engineering, and is organized with support of ACM
SIGSOFT and IEEE TCSE.

MODELS 2025 will host a number of workshops during the three days before
the main conference. The workshops will provide a collaborative forum for a
group of typically 15 to 30 participants to exchange recent and/or
preliminary results, conduct intensive discussions on a particular topic,
or coordinate efforts between representatives of a technical community.

A list of the accepted workshops is available below, with links to
workshop websites.
Please check the summary of workshops and the upcoming deadlines:
https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#Accepted-workshops

*Important dates: *
*Thu 3 Jul 2025* Submissions Deadline
*Thu 31 Jul 2025* Notification of Authors
*Thu 7 Aug 2025* Camera-ready Deadline
*Sun 5 Oct - Tue 7 Oct 2025 Dates*

========================================
[W1]
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#w1-international-workshop-on-collaborative-and-participatory-modeling-copamo-2025>International
Workshop on Collaborative and Participatory Modeling (CoPaMo 2025)
<https://copamo.github.io/>Organizers: Istvan David, Anne Gutschmidt,
Luciano Marchezan and Philippe Giabbanelli
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#organizers-istvan-david-anne-gutschmidt-luciano-marchezan-and-philippe-giabbanelli>

Collaborative modeling is a key enabler to engineering complex systems.
While mostly focusing on the technical and technological aspects of
collaboration, the MDE community has also recognized the need for more
pronounced stakeholder-facing concerns in collaborative modeling techniques
and tools. Such stakeholder-facing concerns are the ones researched under
the participatory modeling umbrella. We aim to expose the synergies between
collaborative and participatory modeling by inviting researchers and
organizers from both communities.

https://copamo.github.io/

[W2]
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#w2-2nd-international-workshop-on-sustainability-and-modeling-susmod25>2nd
International Workshop on Sustainability and Modeling (SusMod’25)
<https://sustainability-and-modeling.github.io/>Organizers: Istvan David,
Arianna Fedeli and Vincenzo Stoico
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#organizers-istvan-david-arianna-fedeli-and-vincenzo-stoico>

Sustainability is becoming a key characteristic of modern systems. While
this trend has been long recognized, rigorous formal methods for assessing
sustainability, reasoning about often contradicting sustainability
properties, and involving the human in this process are missing.

This workshop aims to unearth visceral links between sustainability and
MDE, and that, in both directions: MDE in support of sustainable systems
engineering, and sustainability of MDE techniques.

https://sustainability-and-modeling.github.io/


[W3]
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#w3-mde-intelligence-7th-workshop-on-artificial-intelligence-and-model-driven-engineering>MDE
Intelligence: 7th Workshop on Artificial Intelligence and Model-driven
Engineering <https://mde-intelligence.github.io/>Organizers: Lola Burgueño,
Dominik Bork and Claudio Di Sipio
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#organizers-lola-burgue%C3%B1o-dominik-bork-and-claudio-di-sipio>

Artificial Intelligence (AI) has become part of everyone’s life. More
recently, AI has started to impact all aspects of the system and software
development lifecycle, from specification to design, testing, deployment,
and maintenance, with the main goal of helping engineers produce
higher-quality systems and software more efficiently while being able to
handle ever more complex systems. We believe there is a clear need for
AI-empowered MDE, which will push the limits of “classic” MDE and provide
the proper techniques to develop the next generation of highly complex
software systems engineers will have to design tomorrow. This workshop will
be the opportunity to discuss how to choose, evaluate, and adapt AI
techniques to Model-Driven Engineering (AI for MDE) as a way to improve
current system and software modeling and generation processes while, at the
same time, increasing the benefits and reducing the costs of adopting MDE.
Furthermore, AI is software (and complex software, in fact) that can
benefit from an MDE approach in its design and development, especially with
the challenge of designing trustworthy and frugal AI software. Thus, MDE
for AI is also within the scope of this workshop. We aim to take a broad
view of AI, including any technique that provides human cognitive
capabilities and helps create “intelligent” software.

In 2025, we specifically invite papers that explore novel techniques of
incorporating Foundation Models (FM) and Large Language Models (LLMs) in
MDE. Moreover, we aim to establish a new intelligent modeling assistants
competition.

https://mde-intelligence.github.io/


[W4]
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#w4-modeling-language-engineering-mle>Modeling
Language Engineering (MLE) <https://mleworkshop.github.io/editions/mle2025/>
Organizers: Josselin Enet, Ivan Kurtev and Andreas Wortmann
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#organizers-josselin-enet-ivan-kurtev-and-andreas-wortmann>

Modeling is a key paradigm to successfully engineer software intensive
systems in collaboration with experts from diverse domains. These experts
use domain-specific concepts, notations, and paradigms, that need to be
expressed in suitable, domain-specific modeling languages. Conceiving,
engineering, evolving, and maintaining domain-specific modeling languages,
hence, is crucial to handle increasing complexity of software-intensive
systems. Consequently, modeling language engineering is vital to the
success of modeling in particular and the engineering of these systems in
general. The proposed MLE workshop will be a full-day workshop aiming at
bringing together researchers and practitioners in the language and
modeling language engineering communities to discuss the challenges
associated with the engineering of modeling languages as well as their
integration. Following five editions of the GEMOC workshop, four of the EXE
workshop, and six joint editions as the MLE workshop, this edition will
continue the success of MLE and, again, attract a large number of
interested participants from the MODELS and the SLE community.

https://mleworkshop.github.io/editions/mle2025/
[W5]
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#w5-multi-2025>MULTI
2025 <https://multi-workshop.github.io/2025/>Organizers: Arne Lange,
Fernando Macías and Pierre Maier
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#organizers-arne-lange-fernando-mac%C3%ADas-and-pierre-maier>

The MULTI workshop series is the premier venue for researchers and
practitioners working on multi-level modeling and multi-level software
development. Multi-level modeling represents a new object-oriented paradigm
for both conceptual modelling and software engineering. In contrast to
conventional two-level approaches, it supports an unbounded number of
classification levels and introduces concepts and mechanisms that foster
reuse, adaptability, and control. While multi-level languages and tools
have reached considerable maturity, the field still offers numerous
challenges.

The MULTI workshop series aims at providing a platform for exchanging ideas
and promoting further development of multi-level languages, methods, and
tools. A particular goal is to encourage the community to, beyond proposing
new approaches, analyse different approaches to multi-level modelling and
define objective ways to evaluate their respective strengths and weaknesses.

https://multi-workshop.github.io/2025/
[W6]
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#w6-models-and-evolution-2025-me-2025>Models
and Evolution 2025 (ME 2025)
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#>Organizers: Wael
Kessentini, Juri Di Rocco and Djamel Eddine Khelladi
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#organizers-wael-kessentini-juri-di-rocco-and-djamel-eddine-khelladi>

Model artifacts are subject to constant evolution throughout the life cycle
of modern systems. These dynamics necessitate proper theories, techniques
and tools to ensure correctness, consistency, and high quality across the
trajectory of evolution. However, evolution issues are critical, complex
and costly to manage, and even more concerned by constant increase in
complexity. They concern requirements, software architecture, design,
source code, documentation, integration or deployment. They also typically
affect various kinds of models (data, behavioural, domain, source code or
goal models). The Models and Evolution (ME) workshop will be in its 19th
edition in 2025 and aims to bring together researchers and practitioners to
discuss the latest developments around the topic of the evolution of models
and various artifacts used in MDE.

https://models-and-evolution.github.io/
[W7]
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#w7-second-international-workshop-on-model-management-mom>Second
International Workshop on Model Management (MoM)
<https://mom2025.wp.imt.fr/>Organizers: Dominique Blouin, Sylvain Guérin,
Arne Lange, Moussa Amrani, Anish Bhobe, Chahrazed Boudjemila and Thomas
Weber
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#organizers-dominique-blouin-sylvain-gu%C3%A9rin-arne-lange-moussa-amrani-anish-bhobe-chahrazed-boudjemila-and-thomas-weber>

Model-Based Systems Engineering (MBSE) is a popular way to specify, design,
implement, deploy and maintain complex systems with high quality and lower
costs. These systems combine multiple areas of engineering, including
mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, biochemical, control, signal processing,
and more. To represent all these aspects, a large number of heterogeneous
models are required. However, managing these models correctly can be
challenging, especially when different teams work on them simultaneously,
which is common in collaborative and concurrent engineering. This activity
is called Model Management (MoM), and includes activities beyond
maintaining model consistency, such as ensuring traceability, managing
model views, model validity, model versions, and development workflows.

MoM is crucial for industries that are moving from traditional engineering
methods to MBSE. Therefore, there are many approaches to MoM, both from
academia and industry. However, there is still no single theory or approach
to tackle this problem. To address this, the second edition of this MoM
workshop aims to bring together international researchers and practitioners
from academia and research for an intense one-day workshop and a half-day
challenge. The goal is to improve the state-of-the-art in MoM, develop new
collaborations, and define future research directions.

https://mom2025.wp.imt.fr/


[W8]
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#w8-lowcode-2025-low-code-development-platforms>LowCode
2025: Low-Code Development Platforms <https://lowcode-workshop.github.io/>
Organizers: Luca Berardinelli, Juri Di Rocco, Dimitris Kolovos and
Jean-Marie Mottu
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#organizers-luca-berardinelli-juri-di-rocco-dimitris-kolovos-and-jean-marie-mottu>

Cloud-based low-code development platforms such as Google’s AppSheet,
Microsoft’s PowerApps, OutSystems and Mendix have become increasingly
popular over the last few years, owing to an increasing demand for bespoke,
cost-efficient and reliable data-intensive (e.g., back-office) software
solutions. Low-code platforms are model-driven at their heart and hence
closer interaction and cross-pollination are found to be highly beneficial
for the low-code and model-driven engineering (MDE) communities. The
LowCode 2025 workshop aims to bring together vendors and users of low-code
platforms with model-driven engineering researchers and practitioners, and
to explore opportunities for technology and experience transfer, and
collaboration between them.

https://lowcode-workshop.github.io/


[W9]
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#w9-modevva-25-model-driven-engineering-verification-and-validation>MoDeVVa
’25: Model Driven Engineering, Verification and Validation
<https://sites.google.com/site/modevva/call-for-papers>Organizers: Iulian
Ober, Jens Kosiol, Saad Bin Abid, Rakshit Mittal, Juergen Dingel and
Ernesto Posse
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#organizers-iulian-ober-jens-kosiol-saad-bin-abid-rakshit-mittal-juergen-dingel-and-ernesto-posse>

The workshop on Model Driven Engineering, Verification and Validation
(MoDeVVa) offers a forum for researchers and practitioners who are working
on verification and validation (V&V) in Model-Based Systems Engineering
(MBSE) and Model Driven software Engineering (MDE). The main goals of the
workshop are to discuss the state of practice in V&V approaches in
MBSE/MDE, and to identify, investigate and discuss emerging research in the
mutual impacts of model-based engineering and V&V.

https://sites.google.com/site/modevva/call-for-papers


[W10]
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#w10-ontonexus-ontological-modeling-and-analysis-workshop>onto:Nexus
Ontological Modeling and Analysis Workshop
<https://www.opencaesar.io/events/onto-Nexus-Workshop-2025>Organizers: Maged
Elaasar, Bentley Oakes, Abdelwahab Hamou-Lhadj and Mohammad Hamdaqa
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#organizers-maged-elaasar-bentley-oakes-abdelwahab-hamou-lhadj-and-mohammad-hamdaqa>

Ontological modelling and analysis is experiencing a resurgence in its
application to complex systems. For example, emerging fields of digital
twins and advanced AI (including LLMs) demand the capture and use of
heterogeneous domain knowledge. This is a strength of ontological
approaches, such as domain models and ontological reasoning.

The goal of the “onto:Nexus Ontological Modeling and Analysis Workshop” is
to provide a full-day presentation and discussion space for ontological
modeling and analysis in the context of model-based software and systems
engineering. We aim to bring together researchers and practitioners from
relevant areas such as model-based systems engineering and ontological /
model-based tooling, and from various domains such as the automotive and
aeronautical fields.

https://www.opencaesar.io/events/onto-Nexus-Workshop-2025


[W11]
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#w11-modiot-1st-international-workshop-on-model-based-development-for-the-iot>MoDIoT
– 1st International Workshop on Model-Based Development for the IoT
<https://modiot2025.imad.org/>Organizers: Imad Berrouyne, Yann-Gaël
Guéhéneuc and Hassnaa Moustafa
<https://2025.models-conf.com/track/models-2025-workshops#organizers-imad-berrouyne-yann-ga%C3%ABl-gu%C3%A9h%C3%A9neuc-and-hassnaa-moustafa>

The IoT is a paradigm that promotes the principle that physical objects
should be connected to the internet—Anything, Anywhere, Anytime (AAA). This
vision presents several software engineering challenges due to the inherent
heterogeneity of software and hardware platforms. Several perspectives have
been explored to address this problem systematically. However, most
approaches focus on low-level solutions, such as introducing IoT platforms
or fixed architectures. Model-based development offers an opportunity to
operate at a higher level of abstraction, allowing engineers to bypass such
complexities. This enables them to concentrate on business logic at the
model level and use model transformation to generate the corresponding code
for low-level platforms. The goal of this workshop is to provide a platform
for PhD students, postdocs, researchers, and practitioners in model-based
software development to discuss the potential of model-based development in
addressing the challenges of IoT.

https://modiot2025.imad.org/

========================================

Workshop Co-Chairs
- Shiva Nejati and Foyzul Hassan

============================================================
To contribute to SEWORLD, send your submission to
mailto:[log in to unmask]

http://sigsoft.org/resources/seworld.html provides more
information on SEWORLD as well as links to a complete
archive of messages posted to the list.
============================================================






